today I'm going to demonstrate using
height blue hot height blue this is the
kind that you buy in the crystal form
this is the real real deal this isn't
the liquid stuff you buy in a bottle
there's Valens hide glue it just comes
in little crystals you mix with water
all I've done is put 1 tablespoon of
crystals in that little jar and then 2
tablespoons of water let it set until it
turns to a fish like egg fish egg like
consistency with the with the lid on it
and put it in the glue pot and let it
sit in there for a couple hours until it
it gets all nice and runny to what you
see there in that jar and it's ready to
use
here I'm using it on ingrain and I know
ingrain doesn't hold flu well but this
was just a test I've never used height
glue on ingrain before I wanted to see
how well it would work and pretty much
just like any other glue it just doesn't
ingrain just soaks in too much it
doesn't have a good bond so here I've
got it pretty well it's all tacked up
hide glue sets really quick you'll have
a minute or two to get your joints
together so it's kind of nerve-wracking
to do it on a say a dovetail case or
something of that nature where you have
a little bit longer time that you need
to get the joint set there you can see
the joint just fell apart was just some
shaking now I'm going to try and edge to
edge with joint and what I'm doing here
is just heating up one surface this will
give you a little bit longer open time
it may give you an extra minute or so of
initial tack time of the hide glue just
consistently try to keep the light blue
stirred up so that it's all nice and
smooth and creamy then you just wipe it
on I'm using just an old toothbrush it
works pretty good for this and here
which is finger pressure you can see I'm
just holding it together and squeezing
it
doing this just for a couple minutes
this glue is so much different than
yellow glue I mean yellow glue you have
to put a ton of pressure on to make sure
the glue squeezes into the fibers of the
wood and sets where hide glue it just
attacks differently it's there's
something about it that's just it's an
amazing amazing product and being that
it's made from ground hides and bones
and whatever of animal it's incredible
that this stuff is able to do what it
does here you can see it's just going to
set for a little bit and I'll come back
in a minute and I'll show you what it
does okay after about five or six
minutes just set for five or six minutes
now we're going to see how well it held
pretty good slam it down the workbench
isn't doing it trying to bend it in half
isn't doing it forcing the pressure and
the center isn't doing it pounded on
it's not doing it I'd say in five
minutes set time which is finger
pressure that's pretty good now one of
the main benefits of hide glue is it's
repairable meaning you can heat the
joint with either steam or like I'm
showing here just with a heat gun and it
will release the glue it'll melt the
glue basically back down so that it's
pliable and you can force the joint
apart now after just five or six minutes
of setting in here that's got a pretty
good strong tact imagine 20 or 30 years
from now it's going to even be harder
and better joint that's the main benefit
of hide glue in my opinion now with just
some finger pressure here I can pop the
joint loose repair what do whatever I
needed to to fix this you can see it's
still got a little tack left on it
now I can repair the joint fix it do
whatever I need to
now I'm reheating the old glue
I'm going to put on another even coat on
one of the pieces
put it back together that is incredible
in my opinion hide glue is repairable
and fixable versus yellow glues where
you destroy a joint or break the part
that you you're trying to fix you have
to if you're using hide glue on a chair
you can just heat it up pull the pull
the stretcher or the spindle or whatever
out and it and you can fix it that is a
credible thing for you know future
generations my choice from now on will
probably be hide glue for just about
everything